# Who is in your group

Angel Dhungana

Avram Twitchell

# What data you plan to use and where you plan to get it from

We intend to apply data mining on the Million Song dataset. Specifically, we
plan to data mine the lyrics, musical characteristics (e.g. tempo), artist,
year, and genres data. This data, and associated sub-datasets, can be found at
https://labrosa.ee.columbia.edu/millionsong/. 

# What structure you want to mine from the data

It is common for musical artists and critics to claim to be inspired or
influenced by other artists. Indeed, there are commonly accepted narratives as
to how certain artists or genres got their start, and what influenced them. We
want to see if there exists a quantifiable structure to these influences. We
will do this by examining similarities in lyrics and musical characteristics
such as tempo, to see if there exists a relationship that coincides with the
commonly accepted narratives.

# Why this problem is interesting

This problem is interesting on a few different fronts. 

First, this examination can potentially give insight on how human beings
interact, collaborate, borrow, steal, or draw inspiration from each other. While
this data is only for musical artists, it may offer insights into other creative
endeavors.

Second, it may offer insights on the evolution of music throughout the years.
Are certain lyrics more common now than before? Is music becoming more
aggressive? Is there a greater diversity of music now than before? Using the
time data, we could potentially see how these things shift.

Third, for anyone interested music, this may help to confirm "conventional
wisdom" of which artists have a large influence. Furthermore, it may even
produce novel insights as to which artists or genres may have an unexpected
influence.

# What is new, or what I (the instructor) will learn

I think that this may be an interesting application of finding "structure" in an
organic, human network. I also think that this may be a bit more of an advanced
investigation of clustering, and potentially including multiple ways that the
network can be compared (artist vs genre vs year) may provide interesting
insights.
